feat: add `ndarray/shift` (#8147)
stdlib-js/stdlib: lib/node_modules/@stdlib/ndarray/shift/README.md

<section class="intro">

</section>

<!-- /.intro -->

<!-- Package usage documentation. -->

<section class="usage">

## Usage

```javascript
var shift = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/shift' );
```

#### shift( x\[, options] )

Returns an array containing a **read-only** truncated view of an input [`ndarray`][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] and a **read-only** view of the first element(s) along a specified dimension.

```javascript
var array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/array' );
var ndarray2array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/to-array' );

var x = array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 ], {
    'shape': [ 3, 2 ]
});
// returns <ndarray>

var arr = ndarray2array( x );
// returns [ [ 1.0, 2.0 ], [ 3.0, 4.0 ], [ 5.0, 6.0 ] ]

var y = shift( x );
// returns [ <ndarray>, <ndarray> ]

arr = ndarray2array( y[ 0 ] );
// returns [ [ 3.0, 4.0 ], [ 5.0, 6.0 ] ]

arr = ndarray2array( y[ 1 ] );
// returns [ [ 1.0, 2.0 ] ]
```

The function accepts the following arguments:

-   **x**: input ndarray.
-   **options**: function options (_optional_).

The function supports the following `options`:

> -   **dim**: dimension along which to perform the operation. If provided an integer less than zero, the dimension index is resolved relative to the last dimension, with the last dimension corresponding to the value `-1`. Default: `0`.

Reviewer: The default should be `-1`, not `0`. The nature of the operation does not have any bearing on the `dim` option. Meaning, what value the `dim` option is is completely orthogonal to the fact that the function removes the first element(s). We should be consistent with other APIs and have the default dimension be `-1`. That affects the entirety of this PR.

```javascript
var array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/array' );
var ndarray2array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/to-array' );

var x = array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 ], {
    'shape': [ 3, 2 ]
});
// returns <ndarray>

var arr = ndarray2array( x );
// returns [ [ 1.0, 2.0 ], [ 3.0, 4.0 ], [ 5.0, 6.0 ] ]

var opts = {
    'dim': 1
};

var y = shift( x, opts );
// returns [ <ndarray>, <ndarray> ]

arr = ndarray2array( y[ 0 ] );
// returns [ [ 2.0 ], [ 4.0 ], [ 6.0 ] ]

arr = ndarray2array( y[ 1 ] );
// returns [ [ 1.0 ], [ 3.0 ], [ 5.0 ] ]
```

</section>

<!-- /.usage -->

<!-- Package usage notes. Make sure to keep an empty line after the `section` element and another before the `/section` close. -->

<section class="notes">

</section>

<!-- /.notes -->

<!-- Package usage examples. -->

<section class="examples">

## Examples

<!-- eslint no-undef: "error" -->

```javascript
var array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/array' );
var ndarray2array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/to-array' );
var zeroTo = require( '@stdlib/array/zero-to' );

> var pop = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/pop' );

Author: ```suggestion
var shift = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/shift' );
```

<!--

@license Apache-2.0

Copyright (c) 2025 The Stdlib Authors.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

-->

# shift

> > Return an array containing a read-only truncated view of an input [`ndarray`][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] and a read-only view of the first element(s) along a specific dimension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Return an array containing a read-only truncated view of an input [`ndarray`][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] and a read-only view of the first element(s) along a specified dimension.
```

Here and everywhere else.

Reviewer: The reason why `specified` is still appropriate is that, even if a user does not explicitly provide a `dim` option, the option is still implicitly specified (i.e., omitting the `dim` option is the same as explicitly specifying `-1`).

```javascript
var ndarray = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/ctor' );
var getShape = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/shape' );
var ndarray2array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/to-array' );

var buffer = [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 ];
var shape = [ 3, 2 ];
var strides = [ 2, 1 ];
var offset = 0;

var x = ndarray( 'generic', buffer, shape, strides, offset, 'row-major' );
// returns <ndarray>

var sh = getShape( x );
// returns [ 3, 2 ]

var arr = ndarray2array( x );
// returns [ [ 1.0, 2.0 ], [ 3.0, 4.0 ], [ 5.0, 6.0 ] ]

var y = shift( x );
// returns [ <ndarray>, <ndarray> ]

arr = ndarray2array( y[ 0 ] );
// returns [ [ 3.0, 4.0 ], [ 5.0, 6.0 ] ]

arr = ndarray2array( y[ 1 ] );
// returns [ [ 1.0, 2.0 ] ]
```

The function accepts the following arguments:

-   **x**: input ndarray.
-   **options**: function options (_optional_).

The function supports the following `options`:

-   **dim**: dimension along which to perform the operation. If provided an integer less than zero, the dimension index is resolved relative to the last dimension, with the last dimension corresponding to the value `-1`. Default: `0`.

> By default, the function performs operation along the first dimension of the input [`ndarray`][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor]. To perform operation along any other input [`ndarray`][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor], provide the `dim` option.

Author: ```suggestion
By default, the function performs operation along the first dimension of the input [`ndarray`][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor]. To perform operation along a desired dimension, provide the `dim` option.
```
